ChemPoint Expands Relationship with Corbion to Include Distribution of Pationic® Glycerol Esters and Lactylates in Canada
BELLEVUE, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--

ChemPoint.com, Inc. (ChemPoint), a subsidiary of Univar Inc. (UNVR) and a leader in the marketing, sales, and distribution of specialty and fine chemicals, announced today an agreement with Corbion to distribute Pationic® glycerol esters and lactylates in Canada. Under the agreement, effective Oct. 1, 2015, ChemPoint will manage order placement and fulfillment for Pationic® glycerol ester and lactylate customers in Canada, in addition to providing them with technical assistance and support.

Corbion’s Pationic® glycerol esters and lactylates provide polymer manufacturers with a wide range of benefits for plastic-based packaging and durable goods. Available in various physical forms, Pationic® products offer a high degree of compatibility with polymer production requirements and function as excellent lubricants, dispersants, processing aids, and acid/catalyst neutralizers, as well as imparting antistatic, antifogging, and mold release properties.

“Expanding our relationship with Corbion is a great opportunity for us to jointly provide greater support to the compounder market across North America,” said Rick Hoener, North American Sales Director, ChemPoint. “Corbion is a long-standing, valued supplier and we look forward to driving the continued growth of our relationship now and well into the future.”

"Corbion has enjoyed a distribution relationship with ChemPoint for our Pationic® products in the United States over the past several years, during which time we have seen significant growth," said Mark Concannon, Vice President, Biochemicals Sales, Corbion. "We are excited to expand our polymer additives distribution relationship with ChemPoint into Canada, and expect that their prowess will result in a positive experience for current and prospective customers.”

For more than eight years, ChemPoint and Corbion have worked together to provide customers with specialty, bio-based products and dedicated sales, distribution, and technical support. In addition to expanding the companies’ Pationic® glycerol esters and lactylates relationship into Canada, ChemPoint currently provides support for other Corbion polymer and bakery industry products throughout the U.S. and Mexico.