Airgas (ARG) Stock Continues Gain on Acquisition by Air Liquide
NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Airgas (ARG - Get Report) stock continues to rise, higher by 0.95% to $138.66 on heavy trading volume on Wednesday, after the company announced that it was being acquired by Air Liquide.

Air Liquide, a gas and services company based in France, will buy gas supplier Airgas for $13.4 billion, the companies announced on Tuesday. 

"Airgas customers and employees will benefit from Air Liquide's unrivaled global footprint and strength in technology, innovation and operational efficiency, while Airgas is ready to bring the entrepreneurial culture and packaged gas excellence that have driven our success to date," Airgas Executive Chairman Peter McCausland said in a statement. "We are excited about the prospects of integrating these two businesses to create the largest industrial gas company in the world." 

Exclusive Look Inside: You see Jim Cramer on TV. Now, see where he invests his money. Check out his multi-million dollar portfolio and discover which stocks he is trading. Click here to see the holdings for 14-days FREE.


The acquisition will increase Air Liquide's gas and services sales by 30%, according to a company statement. 

So far today, 2.5 million shares of Airgas have traded, versus its 30-day average of 1.02 million shares.

Separately, TheStreet Ratings team rates AIRGAS INC as a Buy with a ratings score of B-. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

We rate AIRGAS INC (ARG) a BUY. This is driven by a number of strengths, which we believe should have a greater impact than any weaknesses, and should give investors a better performance opportunity than most stocks we cover. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its revenue growth, reasonable valuation levels, growth in earnings per share, expanding profit margins and good cash flow from operations. We feel its strengths outweigh the fact that the company has had generally high debt management risk by most measures that we evaluated.