Air Products' Hydrogen Fueling Technology Featured at NREL Dedication Event
LEHIGH VALLEY, Pa., Oct. 8, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Air Products (APD), the hydrogen fueling and infrastructure worldwide leader, had its SmartFuel® hydrogen fueling dispenser on display today as the Energy Department's National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) held a dedication ceremony for its new hydrogen fueling station in Golden, Colorado.  The 700 bar (10,000 psi) hydrogen fueling station, which includes Air Products' SmartFuel hydrogen fueling dispenser, is the first-of-its-kind in the state and was dedicated on the first-ever National Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Day in the United States (U.S.).

"Air Products is proud that NREL chose our SmartFuel technology for the hydrogen fueling equipment for their station," Ed Kiczek, global business director – Hydrogen Energy Systems at Air Products, told the audience as part of his comments at the event. "The world faces a huge challenge in making the shift toward clean sustainable energy sources and using those resources as efficiently as possible. Those of us in the hydrogen fueling market applaud and commend the effort of the government for taking a world-leading role.  Air Products looks forward to the major vehicle rollout over the next year, and to our important role in providing the fueling infrastructure required to support it."

Kiczek also applauded the efforts of the U.S. Senate which passed Resolution 217 on Sept. 29 formally recognizing today as National Hydrogen Fuel Cell Day, as well as the efforts of the Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association in working toward this recognition.

Air Products' SmartFuel stations worldwide provide hydrogen fueling at 700 bar (10,000 psi) and include Air Products' technology referenced in the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) J2601 hydrogen fueling protocol. Air Products has available several SmartFuel station concepts incorporating modular and expandable technology and a global patent portfolio, with additional patents pending, related to the advancements to be deployed under this protocol. Additionally, this novel patented supply system can cost-effectively seed early markets with hydrogen fueling infrastructure and can be deployed anywhere in the U.S.  

Air Products, the leading global supplier of hydrogen to refineries to assist in producing cleaner burning transportation fuels, has vast experience in the hydrogen fueling industry. Use of the company's fueling technology is increasing and is already used in conducting approximately 1,000,000 hydrogen fills per year. The company has been involved in over 200 hydrogen fueling projects in the United States and 20 countries worldwide. Cars, trucks, vans, buses, scooters, forklifts, locomotives, planes, cell towers, material handling equipment, and even submarines have been fueled with trend-setting Air Products' technologies. Details on Air Products' hydrogen fueling station technologies can be viewed at www.airproducts.com/h2energy.

Air Products has more than 60 years of hydrogen experience and an extensive patent portfolio in hydrogen dispensing technology. Air Products provides liquid and gaseous hydrogen and a variety of enabling devices and protocols for fuel dispensing at varied pressures. Hydrogen for these stations can be delivered to a site via truck or pipeline, produced by natural gas reformation, biomass conversion, or by electrolysis, including electrolysis driven by renewable energy sources such as solar and wind.