P&G inks deal with maker of age-defying ingredient
Procter & Gamble Co. has entered into a joint development agreement with the California maker of an ingredient that supposedly could help consumers ward off the effects of aging.
ChromaDex Corp. said the deal involved a new proprietary ingredient called Niagen nicotinamide riboside that the Cincinnati-based company (NYSE: PG) would have the exclusive right to use in its products.
P&amp;G products include Olay Total Effects Anti-Aging Moisturizer. The company entered into a joint development agreement with the California maker of an ingredient that supposedly could help consumers ward off the effects of aging that would be used in existing and future products.
Frank Jaksch Jr., founder and CEO of ChromaDex (OTCQX: CDXC), didn’t specify what P&G brands that Niagen NR might be used in, but a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission indicated they could include existing and new products.
“This agreement positions our innovative new ingredient to be included in a number of P&G products, some of which are among the highest-volume consumer products in the world,” Jaksch said in a statement issued by the company based in Irvine, Calif.
A spokesman for P&G declined to comment, citing competitive reasons.
P&G made an undisclosed payment to ChromaDex and will make other payments based on reaching various goals, according to the SEC filing. The companies will work together to identify and develop stable forms of Niagen NR, and over the next two years P&G will cover the cost, including human clinical studies and consumer research.
ChromaDex, which was founded in 1999, markets itself as an innovator in proprietary health, wellness and nutritional ingredients that can be used in everything from dietary supplements to skin care and pharmaceutical products.
P&G’s brands include Olay skin care, Meta Health Bar fiber supplements and over-the-counter medicines such as Prilosec OTC, which combats heartburn.
Procter & Gamble already claims its Pantene AgeDefy shampoo “counteracts the signs of aging hair,” and the company attributes similar youth-instilling properties to its Olay Age Defying Body Wash with Vitamin E.
ChromaDex’s portfolio of patented ingredients includes Niagen nicotinamide riboside, which is already being used as a dietary supplement marketed as Niagen NR Age Defense. The company claims the product is the first commercially available type of nicotinamide riboside, a form of vitamin B3 found in milk. ChromaDex thinks the ingredient could help delay or reverse the effects of aging as well as obesity and disease.