Integrated Environmental Technologies, Ltd. Expands Operations Into West Texas
LITTLE RIVER, S.C., Oct. 8, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Integrated Environmental Technologies, Ltd. (IEVM) today announced that it has commenced operations at its production facility located in Pecos, Texas, which is the first production facility that the Company has opened in the Texas region of the Permian Basin.  The Company has secured its first three customers for this facility, and is currently providing Excelyte® well maintenance treatments from this facility on 25 oil wells.  The Company estimates that there are approximately 64,000 existing oil producing wells in West Texas that could benefit from Excelyte® well maintenance treatments. 

The Company currently has three operating production facilities servicing the oil and gas industry, one in each of the Uinta Basin in Utah, the Permian Basin in New Mexico and the Permian Basin in West Texas.  Each facility is currently capable of producing approximately 180,000 gallons of Excelyte®  on a monthly basis.

David LaVance, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, commented, "We have opened this production facility in response to new customer demand in the Permian Basin and our expansion strategy into the state of Texas.  I am pleased that we have established our Pecos facility and are already delivering Excelyte® to customers in that area.  Excelyte® has been shown to be highly effective and provides substantial cost advantages to producers, both of which are key advantages for us in gaining traction within a marketplace that is now focused on reducing operating expenses and improving production efficiencies."

Hydrogen sulfide is a toxic and corrosive chemical that frequently appears in oil and gas production.  Excelyte® acts as a biocide and as a hydrogen sulfide eliminator/scavenger that kills sulfate-reducing bacteria, which are known to produce hydrogen sulfide.  The Company's current down-hole well maintenance program consists of regularly scheduled Excelyte® treatments on oil production wells that contain bacteria which can corrode well equipment and well linings; contain bacteria that can sour the oil produced; and/or test positive for hydrogen sulfide.