Moody's affirms Olin's Ba1 ratings; outlook remains stable
New York, October 19, 2015 -- Moody's Investors Service has today affirmed the Ba1 corporate family rating (CFR) and Ba1-PD probability of default rating (PDR) of Olin Corporation (Olin), the ultimate holding company of the subsidiary guarantors to the group's senior credit facilities and senior unsecured debt obligations. Concurrently, Moody's has affirmed the Ba1 rating to Blue Cube Spinco Incorporated's (Spinco) $1.22 billion senior unsecured notes (new notes) which are guaranteed by Olin on a senior unsecured basis. The new notes are comprised of a $720 million and a $500 million senior unsecured issue, due in 2023 and 2025 respectively. Moody's understands that the proceeds from the new notes are being used to finance the completed combination of Olin and the Dow Chemical Company's (Dow, Baa2 stable) chlor-alkali business known as Dow Chlorine Products (DCP, unrated). Moody's has also assigned a Speculative Grade Liquidity (SGL) rating of SGL-2 to Olin, indicating that Moody's believes Olin's liquidity profile, or ability to meet its short-term (next 12-18 months) cash obligations, is good. The rating outlook remains stable.

In late March 2015, Olin and Dow announced a definitive agreement that will see Olin acquire Dow's U.S. chlor-alkali, global epoxy and global chlorinated organics businesses (Dow's chlor-alkali business) for a total consideration of approximately $5.0 billion. The transaction, which was financed with a combination of debt, equity, and cash, closed on October 5, 2015.

"Relative to Moody's original assumptions, the final debt package put in place for the Olin-Dow transaction increases Olin's gross debt and interest expense by approximately $300 million and $65 million, respectively. The increase in debt and interest expense is credit negative for Olin as it further stresses Olin's financial flexibility during a key period of dramatic change to the company's business profile; however, our projections continue to incorporate meaningful debt reduction over the next 12 months and support the Ba1 rating," says Anthony Hill, a Moody's Vice President -- Senior Credit Officer and lead analyst for Olin.