Cramer: Is Oil the New Tobacco?
Are fossil fuels the next tobacco stocks?

Has a consensus developed that if it is fossil, it's going to go away? That plus the dissolution of the cartel known at OPEC are rattling this market in a way that nobody could have predicted a year ago.

Now, I've been talking about how we've been in crazy town for ages in this market where good news is bad news and vice versa. We had a nice change of pace last Friday when we got a strong jobs number at the market actually rallied.

But today perhaps the best news that could happen to the consumer, save a monumental tax cut, is a further decline in energy. That is having its usual horrendous impact on the stock market.

Now some of that is because many of these stocks were owned for income in a time when the market's been starved for income. We have seen an amazing decline in the master limited partnership space, a group known for its outsized distributions, in part because of a sense that the group's finished with the dissolution of OPEC and in part because a company that isn't even a master limited partnership, Kinder Morgan (KMI), has a stock that's falling apart. Notice I didn't say that Kinder Morgan is falling apart. I am just saying that the stock is and that may be all that matters.

How did we get into this positive predicament and remember I still regard it as positive because we are a net importer of energy as a nation and a net user of gasoline, heating oil and natural gas. There are only a few states that actually have oil- and gas-related jobs that were growing, pretty much just a handful, so the pain should be concentrated in those producing states. Not only that, but because the price of energy has become so low and the pipeline system is being built to ship  cheap natural gas to where it can be made into plastics and other fuels, we will be adding manufacturing jobs to these states, especially Louisiana, which is the hands-down winner on a per-capita basis.

The answer is that OPEC dissolved. This cartel, founded in 1982 to boost prices, has been disassembled by its own members because they are so at odds with each other. Saudi Arabia is a rich country that hates Iran, a poor country, and the Saudis don't want Iran to get a lot of money to rebuild its bountiful facilities. I am sure the Saudis now view Iraq as a proxy state for Iran, so they don't want to support that. In the meantime, the Saudis don't want to lose their market share to the U.S. or China, so it is natural to price cut to keep those relationships.

We are a huge winner in a scenario where the Saudis want us to have cheap oil. If Washington weren't so dysfunctional it could put an infrastructure tax on gasoline of a couple of cents and double the size of that $261 billion highway bill. Heaven knows we need it.