Mexico Gobbling Up Cheap U.S. Natural Gas Via Pipeline
Mexico’s economy is slowly benefitting from energy reform: cheap U.S. natural gas filling new pipelines is lowering electricity bills.

Associated Press
Deflationary pricing — electricity costs are down more than 15% this year– hasn’t benefitted the iShares MSCI Mexico Capped exchange-traded fund (EWW), which is down 11% this year. But cheap natural gas imports from the United States should continue, and continue to benefit Mexico’s manufacturing sector. This makes rising interest rates less of a risk in 2016, writes Carlos Capistran, an analyst at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch:

“Lower electricity costs and cheaper natural gas represent an upside risk for growth and a downside risk for inflation in 2016. Lower electricity costs and cheaper natural gas also support our views that the manufacturing sector will continue to be the engine of growth, that inflation will remain under control and that the central bank has room to hike less than the Fed in 2016 … The key to lower electricity tariffs is that Mexico is using more natural gas to produce electricity, which is cheaper and greener than fossil fuel. The public electricity utility (CFE) has been gradually substituting natural gas and hydroelectric energy for fossil fuel and diesel to produce electricity. The CFE has been able to use more natural gas because it is importing it from the US, where it is plentiful and cheap. New pipelines becoming operational explain the increase in imports from the United States. As part of the energy revolution in Mexico following the reform, there are 14 projects underway or plans for new pipelines to connect Mexico with the United States to take advantage of the cheap energy there. These projects represent 2,360 miles of pipelines with total investment (public and private) of $7.4 billion in the following years. We expect U.S. natural gas exports from the United States into Mexico to increase by 0.6 bcf per day in 2016 mainly driven by the Ramones II pipeline ramp-up in the second half of 2016.”

Among the companies tapping Mexico’s energy reform is Energy Transfer Partners (ETP), a U.S. energy master limited partnership (MLP) that produces and sells propane and natural gas, and has pipelines in Texas. It is spending roughly $10 billion on new projects coming online in 2017, including natural gas exports to Mexico, according to Stifel Analyst Selman Akyol. Other MLPs, including CSI Compressco (CCLP), are looking for opportunities, he writes.

Kinder Morgan (KMI), among the largest oil-and-gas pipeline operators, is signing contracts for natural gas exports to Mexico. Texas-based NuStar Energy (NS) has storage facilities in Mexico and has been working on a joint venture with PMI, an affiliate of Mexico’s deregulated state-run oil company, Pemex, to move propane from the U.S. to Mexico.

