Will Oil Hit $40 on Oversupply Issues?
The price of crude oil has not recovered after falling from over $100 a barrel to under $50 at the end of 2014 - beginning of 2015. Since then, the price of oil has been relatively range-bound between $45-50 a barrel. Crude prices have now broken out of that range and is trading under $42 a barrel. Will it test $40 as it did in August and continue its downward slide?
Oversupply Issues from Iraq
One reason for the depressed oil price is the oversupply that is in the system currently. Aside from the lack of expected demand from China, Iraq's oil production has increased to levels not seen since early 2012.

According to Bloomberg, the tankers carrying Iraqi crude have embarked to North American ports, and if lined up end to end, the tankers would span 2 miles in length. Iraq has been able to boost production as the threat from ISIS has lessened due to a multi-pronged effort from the Iraqi army, Russian air power, U.S. special forces and a Kurdish offensive from the north.

Miles and Miles of Tankers
Financial blog ZeroHedge has also reported that already, there is a glut of oil tankers waiting for access to the oil terminal at the port of Galveston, Texas. According to ZeroHedge and Bloomberg, vessel tracking for oil tankers shows that more than 40 tankers are anchored off the Texas coast, representing millions of barrels of oil. These vessels must wait an average of five days to offload their crude, compared to a three day wait in May. Oil tankers have also reportedly been instructed to sail at very low speeds to prevent traffic jams.

The problem isn't just in Texas. Tankers are lined up outside of ports in the North Sea, China, Southeast Asia, and the United Arab Emirates.

The Bottom Line
Oil prices have broken out of their range to the downside, and $40 a barrel may be the next resistance level for traders. An oversupply of oil, fueled by weak Chinese demand, but also from increased exports from Iraq, are leading to a congestion of oil tankers at sea waiting to unload their cargo on to the oil markets.