Huntsman (HUN) Stock Jumps on Buyback Plan
NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Shares of Huntsman Corp. (HUN - Get Report) were gaining by 5.3% to $10.20 on Thursday morning, after the chemicals company announced a new share repurchase program on Wednesday.

Huntsman's board of directors authorized a buyback program of up to $150 million and the repurchase plan does not have an expiration date, the company said.

The program is "an expression of confidence in the company's long term future and ability to generate further shareholder value," President and CEO Peter R Huntsman said in a statement.

Exclusive Look Inside: You see Jim Cramer on TV. Now, see where he invests his money. Check out his multi-million dollar portfolio and discover which stocks he is trading. Click here to see the holdings for 14-days FREE.


"We are reviewing our current capital plan for 2016 and 2017 and believe we can reduce capital expenditures and improve working capital commensurate with the costs of the repurchase program. As we complete our remaining cost reduction objectives of more than $100 million and complete various capital projects early next year, we will see the benefits of these measures as well," the CEO continued.

About 3.9 million shares of Huntsman were traded by 11:24 am. Thursday, compared to the company's average trading volume of about 4 million shares a day.

Separately, TheStreet Ratings team rates HUNTSMAN CORP as a Hold with a ratings score of C. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

We rate HUNTSMAN CORP (HUN) a HOLD. The primary factors that have impacted our rating are mixed -- some indicating strength, some showing weaknesses, with little evidence to justify the expectation of either a positive or negative performance for this stock relative to most other stocks. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its reasonable valuation levels and good cash flow from operations. However, as a counter to these strengths, we also find weaknesses including a generally disappointing performance in the stock itself, deteriorating net income and disappointing return on equity.

Highlights from the analysis by TheStreet Ratings Team goes as follows:

Net operating cash flow has significantly increased by 194.00% to $147.00 million when compared to the same quarter last year. In addition, HUNTSMAN CORP has also vastly surpassed the industry average cash flow growth rate of -3.74%.
HUNTSMAN CORP has experienced a steep decline in earnings per share in the most recent quarter in comparison to its performance from the same quarter a year ago. This company has reported somewhat volatile earnings recently. But, we feel it is poised for EPS growth in the coming year. During the past fiscal year, HUNTSMAN CORP increased its bottom line by earning $1.34 versus $0.54 in the prior year. This year, the market expects an improvement in earnings ($2.15 versus $1.34).
The company's current return on equity has slightly decreased from the same quarter one year prior. This implies a minor weakness in the organization. In comparison to the other companies in the Chemicals industry and the overall market, HUNTSMAN CORP's return on equity is significantly below that of the industry average and is below that of the S&P 500.
The company, on the basis of change in net income from the same quarter one year ago, has significantly underperformed when compared to that of the S&P 500 and the Chemicals industry. The net income has significantly decreased by 75.6% when compared to the same quarter one year ago, falling from $119.00 million to $29.00 million.