Petrobras (PBR.A) Stock Plunges on Lower Oil Prices
NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Petrobras (PBR.A - Get Report) stock is retreating by 6.18% to $4.25 in late morning trading on Wednesday, after a decline in oil prices caused by a build-up in U.S. crude oil stockpiles.

WTI crude is down by 0.96% to $42.46 per barrel, while Brent crude is falling by 1.34% to $45.50 per barrel this morning, according to the CNBC.com index.

U.S. commercial crude oil inventories grew by 1 million barrels to 488.2 million barrels last week, according to Energy Information Administration data.

Exclusive Look Inside: You see Jim Cramer on TV. Now, see where he invests his money. Check out his multi-million dollar portfolio and discover which stocks he is trading. Click here to see the holdings for 14-days FREE.


Production in the U.S. dropped to 9.17 million barrels per day for the week ended November 20 from 9.18 million barrels per day the week before.

The international crude oil benchmark, Brent, is also declining following reports that OPEC will not consider curbing production if non-OPEC countries do not consider reducing production too, Reuters reports.

Since November 2014, the 12-country organization has been producing a record amount of oil to defend its market share, Reuters noted.

Shares of Petrobras, a Brazilian state-run oil and gas company, are also trading lower today after the country's currency slumped more than 2% following the arrest of Brazil's Senate leader and the CEO of BTG Pactual, a financial company in Brazil.

Senator Delcidio do Amaral and CEO Andre Esteves were arrested for allegedly obstructing a corruption investigation surrounding Petrobras.

Separately, TheStreet Ratings team rates PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA- PETR as a Sell with a ratings score of D+. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

We rate PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA- PETR (PBR.A) a SELL. This is driven by multiple weaknesses, which we believe should have a greater impact than any strengths, and could make it more difficult for investors to achieve positive results compared to most of the stocks we cover. The company's weaknesses can be seen in multiple areas, such as its disappointing return on equity, generally disappointing historical performance in the stock itself, deteriorating net income, generally high debt management risk and feeble growth in its earnings per share.