Tyson Foods (TSN) Stock Rises, Analysts Praise Quarterly Results
NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Tyson Foods (TSN - Get Report) stock is gaining 2.41% to $49.25 in mid-morning trading on Tuesday as analysts applauded the company's fiscal 2015 fourth quarter financial results.

Before the market open on Monday, the company reported quarterly earnings of 83 cents per share, missing estimates of 88 cents per share, and revenue of $10.51 billion, beating estimates of $10.34 billion.

Tyson Foods' stock price target was raised to $45 from $42 at Credit Suisse, which maintained a "neutral" rating on the stock.

Exclusive Look Inside: You see Jim Cramer on TV. Now, see where he invests his money. Check out his multi-million dollar portfolio and discover which stocks he is trading. Click here to see the holdings for 14-days FREE.


"The chicken division's strong fourth quarter performance and management's guidance for a 10% profit margin next year assuaged the concern in the market that Tyson's value-added strategy would prove vulnerable to falling commodity chicken prices," Credit Suisse said in an analysts note this morning.

BMO Capital Market increased its price target to $53 from $52 on the "outperform"-rated stock earlier today as well.

"Tyson Foods remains a compelling investment opportunity reflecting its ongoing progress to de-commoditize its chicken operation, a favorable pork operating environment, the cyclical rebound in beef," BMO said in an analyst note.

Separately, TheStreet Ratings team rates TYSON FOODS INC as a Buy with a ratings score of A+. TheStreet Ratings Team has this to say about their recommendation:

We rate TYSON FOODS INC (TSN) a BUY. This is based on the convergence of positive investment measures, which should help this stock outperform the majority of stocks that we rate. The company's strengths can be seen in multiple areas, such as its growth in earnings per share, revenue growth, attractive valuation levels, good cash flow from operations and solid stock price performance. We feel its strengths outweigh the fact that the company has had somewhat disappointing return on equity.